---
layout: post
title: Public health movies
subtitle: Minamata & Jhonny Deep
gh-repo: marilinasantero/marilinasantero.github.io
gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
tags: [mercury poisoning, public health, minamata disease]
comments: true
---
The fifth edition of the Barcelona-Sant Jordi International Film Festival [BCN Film Fest](https://www.bcnfilmfest.com/es) was held in Barcelona between April 15 and 23. As in its previous editions, it proposes a selection of films from both the national and international scene related to the world of literature and history.

Instead of writing an introductory post, I decided writing something on the subject of the moment (and the last year, and probably the next...). 
Yes! COVID, crisis, and sudden change of plans.  

The pandemic hit on us in several ways, and it had a major impact on international students. I come from Argentina, and with great enthusiasm I decided to move to Barcelona last year. I joined the doctoral program on Monday, March 2, 2020. The lockdown was declared on March 15 in Spain.  

With the introduction of measures many concerns have arisen. Maintaining a good mental and physical health, caring for the beloved ones in my home-country, adapting to new ways of working remotely are just few examples of the new challenges. The lockdown led to a decrease in motivation and to a blending of work and free time, which made both focusing during work and relaxing after work considerably harder. Fortunately I had the chance to visit my family for Xmas. But the situation is still changing, and it remains difficult to predict whether and when I could go back home.  

I am still trying to found my way to get through, knowing that I will overcame the situation in a good way, and appreciated myself for the small achievements. 
It cannot be only bad. It is helpful to know that I was (and am) not alone. Consider my first post as an excuse to launch the blog. It will quickly get pushed down my list as I publish more. It is a promise. “Good enough” is totally fine.
